Problem Statement: At present raw data from source systems (Mortgage Sales Origination MSO, Retail Online Banking ROLB) is held in BIW (~257 MSO files & 10 ROLB files) as is E/S layers with various retention periods. This data occupies lot of space on Teradata and also undergoes lot of processing/replication before it is used for reporting. Also, these BIW data structures match with source structures and may not be standardized. 

Objective: We need a pre-processing environment that can hold the raw data from source systems at lower cost for longer duration as well as provide capability to process this data with greater efficiency. We need to standardize the data present on BIW and also the presentation layer in order to enable better and consistent user experience.

Goals:

•	Process large number of small daily files and large files.
•	Creation of generic code components which are highly reusable for similar projects.
•	Initial Load from Teradata MSO database to Hadoop E layer (HDFS files) using SQOOP.
•	Creating Hive structures on top of HDFS files for MSO to enable SQL access.
•	Incremental Load of delta data for MSO from BIIS ETL publish layer to Hadoop inbound directory through SFTP.
o	Processes mentioned in Section 6.3.2 in BIIS ETL DW HLD.
•	Daily recreation of the MSO table files by merging the input delta with the existing table data (Hadoop E Layer). 
•	Creation of INSERT/UPDATE record sets for Teradata E layer for MSO.



DIET- DAta Integration & execution transformation
Business Needs
I.	Ad-hoc data analysis on the mortgage data to respond to strategic questions asked by higher management & executives. Examples below:
a.	Given interest rate changes by x% how likely is it that customers (split by income types) will transfer from product A to B? 
b.	What is the trend of the applications for buy to let mortgages in the last 18 months?
II.	Modelled and ad-hoc research into customer behavior for strategic decisions and targeted marketing. 
a.	Based on the payments data of the Barclays customers, determine customers who have paying for mortgages with competitor lenders. 
b.	Based on the advertisements on portals such as Zoopla, identify customers to target for mortgage product sales opportunities. 







SBP ( small business portal) - smart business portal


SBP3 -

It provides dashboard - for diff mercahnts - In each month where they have invested-   where 
with the same scale business how much & wheere they have invested

every month how much it has loss/ profit- wrt his customer & wrt his  


Its provide sugestion to barcalys customer - scope to open business in this radius /aread - 

similar customer is earning this much revenue









SBP1
-------------------

Focus on twon parts
Customer 
-profile - age - focus on diff categories of ages
-spending - how much they spend -
-loyality - loyay - they come to u only for similar purchasing - 4 - 5 buckets -  0-5 
-traffic - vol of customers

Merchant : itselfe
----------------
how much where theere expenditure

money in 
money out
cheque
cash



SBP3 - harmonizatoin - customer  & business
-----------------
comparison on similar customer:
"long_text":"Your money in over the last 3 months was 29 % lower than it was in the same period last year. This compares with other COMPUTER & RELATED ACTIVITIES businesses in LONDON who have seen a increase of 29 % .",


Industrialization:

Its provide sugestion to barcalys customer - scope to open business in this radius /aread - 

similar customer is earning this much revenue




From SBPDemo
--------------------------
My customer & my business
Profile of customer – how they are behaving – so we can generate the revenue

Customer division done on the 3 attributes..
Profile of customer – Age income gender of customer .. 

We are evaluating their(Age income gender) contribute on bussines
Their income levels – come up with maket strategeise
Loyality How many customers give me the business – give me more than once

Small business defines – first criteria – industry segment - 
Age group vs Income group  - Cannot be compare –

My customer – which are 
My business – related with my own business – where I should put my money – Money In & money out of my business -  how my business is contribuition
Many coming into my account – coming through card, cheque, cash. 
Customer - they can detailed performance - 
Comparing other business 
barclays pause machine  - my customer
we are considering merchants ..having barclays par..s machine... 
merchant who was doing business which are working more than 1 year with barclays - its an pilot pahse for only
few merchants - it shows only Barclays data - which merchant bought - Pause  machine..
- its limited  wrt other business which merchant is speding from other machine( not barclays)

- its show all the reports wrt barclays data.
-we 
Rolb consumes it
DWS - Terratedat -  Sqoop --Landing - Parche format- Impala - 
--------------------------------------
Impala table - Business rules are quering Impala to come out stats



